# DevOps Training


#### Day 2 -12/07/2023&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Wednesday


## Introduction to GitHub
 
 **VERSION CONTROL SPACE:**

A version control system (VCS) is a software tool that helps you track and manage changes to your code over time. It does this by storing snapshots of your code at different points in time, which you can then revert to if you need to.

**DIFFERENCE BETWEEN GIT AND GITHUB:**

Git is a tool that helps you track changes to your code. It's like a time machine for your code, letting you go back in time to see what your code looked like at any point in the past.

GitHub is a website that hosts Git repositories. It's like a cloud storage service for your code, making it easy to share your code with others and collaborate on projects.

**Pipeline: Git**

Pipeline provides an extensible set of tools for modeling build, testing, and deploying code. All jobs in a stage are executed simultaneously and, if it succeeds, the pipeline moves on to the next stage. If one of the jobs fails, as a rule, the next stage is not executed.

**GitHub: GitHub Desktop**

GitHub Desktop is an application that enables you to interact with GitHub using a GUI instead of the command line or a web browser. GitHub Desktop encourages you and your team to collaborate using best practices with Git and GitHub. You can use GitHub Desktop to complete most Git commands from your desktop with visual confirmation of changes. You can push to, pull from, and clone remote repositories with GitHub Desktop, and use collaborative tools such as attributing commits and creating pull requests.

**GitLab:**

GitLab is a web-based Git repository that provides free open and private repositories, issue-following capabilities, and wikis. It is a complete DevOps platform that enables professionals to perform all the tasks in a project—from project planning and source code management to monitoring and security. Additionally, it allows teams to collaborate and build better software.

**Steps followed for using shared GitHub repository:**

1. Install GitHub Desktop and login with your credentials.
2. Fork the parent repository.
3. Clone that particular repository on the local system (this will show that particular repository in your system at your desired location).

#### TASK: Write HTML code and push that into GitHub repository. Generate pull request. Then finally fetch the code files of other team members into your own repository.

#### STEPS FOLLOWED:

1. Write HTML code on VS Code in the same folder as of GitHub.
2. In GitHub Desktop, after creating HTML code, click "Commit to main," then click "Push origin."
3. Now open the GitHub account on the web:
   - Generate a pull request by clicking on "Pull Request."
   - Create a new pull request.
   - Add comments and create a new pull request.
4. After the pull request has been accepted, the merged file will be shown.
5. The next step is to fetch this data; to do so, click "Go to GitHub Desktop."
6. Click on "Fetch Origin," after it gets completed.
7. Go to "Branch," then click "Merge into the current branch."
   - This will fetch all the data into your current repository.
